% !TEX root = master.tex

\section*{Acknowledgements}

I owe an enormous debt of gratitude to 

Thank you to...

My committee, all of whom invested much more time into this process than I (naively) initially promised they would have to commit. 

Jack, for keeping me focused on the big picture, providing reassurance when I needed it, and helping me find my voice. Thanks for guiding this thing home.

Brad, for critically evaluating my strategy for analyzing a future range of variability and for being supportive and honest.

Becky, for your partnership through the HRV component of the project, your extensive, insightful, and thoughtful comments on many drafts of this thesis, and for mentoring me throughout the process. I loved working with you and hope I'm lucky enough to do so again professionally.

Kevin, for hiring me to work on this project nearly four years ago, and for giving so much of your time to steadily work towards completion. Your high expectations kept me on track and led to better research.

Eduard, the programmer I never met, without whom none of the simulation or analysis would have happened. Thanks for all the bug fixes.

Terri, Marilyn, Alan, and Hugh, for staying excited about the project for so long and being patient with progress when deadlines were passed, for your critical analysis of intermediate results, and for your help in learning the ecology of an amazing ecosystem. I learned so much from all of you!

Blake, Rebekah, Melanie, Kendra, for your friendship and support, keeping me from feeling isolated and providing the basis for the community in the department. Thanks for the adventures, the drinks, the food, and the conversation.

Brian, for believing in me and recruiting me before anyone else did! Thanks for always being available, for your friendship and mentorship, for your fairness and good advice. You are one of the best parts of my time here.

Scott, for hiring me and giving me so many opportunities to grow as a scientist in a nonacademic environment. This thesis is better because of my experiences at Fish & Wildlife. Thank you also for your steadfast support and encouragement, and for modeling pretty unfailingly selfless behavior. I hope I can be as good as you.

My parents, for their unending support, for listening to all my frustrations, for making sure I always know that I am safe and loved, and for being genuinely interested in my research.

Allison and Paige, I'm so glad such wonderful women are in this department, to help me sort out problems, both personally and in academia. I always knew you would make time and space for me, despite how busy you are, and I really appreciate that.

Last and most importantly Lee, for keeping my spirits up, so much editing, for solving some of the trickier statistics questions, for helping me learn how to be a scientist, and for being the best. Without you we never would have adopted Tilly, who I also acknowledge here even though she wouldn't get it. I couldn't ask for a better pack.